Name: Jeff McGovern
Paper: Upadhyay, Shyam, Christos Christodoulopoulos, and Dan Roth. "“Making the News”: Identifying Noteworthy Events in News Articles."
1. What is the problem the authors are trying to solve?
THe authors are trying to identify noteworthy events in news articles. Specifically, they are trying to identify _foreground_ articles, which differ from _background_ articles in that they are the event that happened, not the background event (as far as I can tell --- the authors haven't defined noteworthiness).
2. What other approaches or solutions existed at the time that this work was done?
Various aspects of this concept have solutions to it. Some solutions exist for cross-document event coreference, where multiple documents are compared and the similar event is extracted. For First Story Detection (FSD), researchers have used a similarity measure with an inverted index to find the first story on an event. Event linking attempts to link an event mentioned in an article in a news archive to the article that first reported it. Document Summarization is a subtask that will hopefully be solved by the tool the researchers are creating in this paper.
3. What was wrong with the other approaches or solutions?
The FSD solution does not account for multiple event occurring in the same article, instead treating the whole article as a single event.
4. What is the authors' approach or solution?
The authors define events as sentence-level relations and entities are extracted via syntactic and lexical constraints.
5. Why is it better than the other approaches or solutions?
The authors don't make it clear why their approach is better. There may be more focus on the news-peg concept that's mentioned throughout that makes it a better algorithm than the others.
6. How did they test their solution?
Researchers used the New York Times annotated corpus for all of their experiments. They annotated 100 random articles to see how the news-peg identifier performed.
7. How does it perform?
Their baselines seem entirely arbitrary and without justification, but their rule-based classifier performs better than some of them.
8. Why is this work important?
Extracting the actual that an article is talking about can be important to tracking news stories as they evolve and progress.
3+ comments/questions
  * What is noteworthiness, actually?
  * Did this paper introduce news-peg identification? Or is it just introducing it to the Computer Science community?
  * Who calls F1 score values ``points''? It's geometric mean of two proportions.
